---
layout: post 
title:  "ATCQ R&D #4: Platforming & Plastic"
date:   2022-07-14 09:00:00 +0100 
categories: [unreal, atcq]
---

# ATCQ R&D Day #4

Today, the morning began by trying to get set up with a baseline project for testing 2D platforming [following the tutorial here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZTsDv2jdTsg) which sets out a bare bones project to replace the template removed by Unreal in moving from UE4 to UE5.

After making it some of the way through this tutorial it became apparent that this work should be taking place inside a new ATCQ project repository that built on the MLF Template that now includes Lucas and Maria's work on networking.

Plastic doesn't work the same as git when it comes to forking, so some time was spent trying to work out an approach to take that repo, and move it to a new one. Eventually we settled on the approach outlined [here](https://www.plasticscm.com/documentation/gui/plastic-scm-version-control-gui-guide#Chapter23:TheSynchronizationview). After setting the new repo up to sync with the template repo, we simply deleted it as a source, effectively unlinking the two repositories.

Now we had a copy of the template repo that needed some cleanup including renaming the project, and its maps, and creating new maps that supported OFPA.

Additionally, the structure of the project with the server requires us to have a level called `xxxx_Entry` and `xxxx_Main` where clients will load into the Entry map like a lobby and then load into the Main map once they have acquired the information they need as a client. That meant setting up OFPA for the Entry map too, so that Lucas and Maria could work in version control nicely with one another.

Once this all was set up we had a baseline repository for doing further work all inside the same level which needs to be carefully segregated in its folder hierarchy so that each section does not become a sprawling mess.

---

## EOD Update

Unfortunately the new way of opening the project for multiplayer led to a massive corruption in the project, and resulted in needing to rebuild the entire engine from scratch on my machine. Spent from lunch until the end of day trying to rectify this and eventually left the Engine building overnight.

This process also made me find out the answer to the Plastic equivalent for `git clean -fxfd` [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60697028/some-git-equivalents-for-plastic):

{% highlight batchfile %}

REM - Delete private files
for /f %%a in ('cm status --private --compact --short %~1') do (
REM - IF IS DIRECTORY
IF EXIST %%~sa\NUL ( rmdir /s /q "%%a" ) ^
else ( del /s /q "%%a" )
)

REM - Delete ignored files
for /f %%a in ('cm status --ignored --cutignored --compact --short %~1') do (
REM - IF IS DIRECTORY
IF EXIST %%~sa\NUL ( rmdir /s /q "%%a" ) ^
else ( del /s /q "%%a" )
)

{% endhighlight %}
